TACTYK (should) Affix Captions To Your Kitten - Code of Conduct (TACTYK-COC)

In acknowledgement of a wider trend toward laying out some ground rules for public participation, it has been decided that this project should be initiated with rules of engagement already established.  

Rules:
Treat project members respectully.
Threats, insults, slurs, hate speech, obscenity, and harassment are prohibited.
Try to resolve problems and disputes amicably and avoid escalating issues.
Ulterior motives are not appreciated -- vindictiveness and exploitation of rules and disciplinary processes to cause trouble for project members is prohibitted.
Do not make accusasions which are false, unprovable, or which rely on insinuation, innuendo, or manipulation of language.
Do not violate others' Liberty of Conscience (see "Expectations").
If you do raise personal issues and you draw criticism for it, then try your best to stay tolerant, patient, and thoughtful.  It may well be that your critic cares about you and is trying to spare you from harm.

Guidelines:
Use courteous and professional conduct.
Keep public discussions relevant to the project.
Do not raise personal issues.

Expectations:
No one on the project is obliged to use your name, pseudonym, or pronouns.  If that is an issue, either pick a pseudonym which others agree to use or stick with titles, or accept that references to you may include a few quotation marks and qualifiers.
No one is obliged to celebrate, to approve of, or even to tolerate any behaviors, practices, or ideas, even if such things are widely upheld and presented as part of personal idendity.
It is also expected that major objections or intolerance of conduct of others is either to be handled with maturity and tactfulness or is to be given no public expression.
If you are providing valuable and meaningful technical contributions to the project, expect your contributions to be appreciated and acknowledged on merit, even if there are sharp cultural and political differences elsewhere.


This project is to be under Christian governance.  This is how the rules, guidelines, and expectations are to be understood and applied.  
